Template Method Pattern is a behavioral pattern, defines the skeleton (fixed steps) of an
algorithm in a base class, but lets subclasses decide how some steps are performed without
altering its overall structure.

Like you building training new AI-ML model. So, to train the model below basic structure
should remains same. But the internal details of steps may varies.
1. Load the data (common method for all subclasses i.e fixed template method)
2. Preprocess the data (common method for all subclasses i.e fixed template method)
3. Train model (different training strategies for diff model, i.e. abstract method)
4. Evaluate model (different evaluation strategies for diff model, i.e. abstract method)
5. Save model (common method for all subclasses i.e fixed template method)
So, core idea is that make a common workflow in one place, and allow subclasses to change only
specific steps.


Component of template method pattern
1. Abstract Class/Interface: Defines the template methods (algorithm skeleton) with some steps
implemented and others left abstract or as hooks for customization.
2. Template Method: Outlines the algorithm’s fixed structure by calling steps in order, often
marked final to prevent changes.
3. Abstract/Hook Methods: Placeholder methods in the abstract class that subclasses implements
or optionally override.
4. Concrete Subclasses: Provide implementations for abstract methods, customizing specific steps
while preserving the overall algorithm.


Use of the Template Method Design Pattern
1. Common Algorithm with Variations: When an algorithm has a common structure but differs in some
steps or implementations, the Template Method pattern can help subclasses customize specific parts
while encapsulating the common phases in a superclass.
2. Code Reusability: By specifying the common steps in one place, the Template Method design
encourages code reuse when you have similar tasks or processes that must be executed.
3. Enforcing Structure: It's useful when you want to provide some elements of an algorithm
flexibility while maintaining a particular structure or set of steps.


When not to use the Template Method Design Pattern?
1. When Algorithms are Highly Variable: Using the Template Method pattern might not be appropriate
if the algorithms you're dealing with have a lot of differences in their steps and structure
and little in common. This is because it could result in inappropriate abstraction or excessive
complexity.
2. Tight Coupling Between Steps: The Template Method pattern might not offer enough flexibility
if there is a close coupling between the algorithm's parts, so modifications to one step require
modifications to other steps.
3. Inflexibility with Runtime Changes: Because the Template Method pattern depends on predetermined
structure and behavior, it might not be the best option if you expect frequent changes to the
algorithm's stages or structure at runtime.


Without Template Method Pattern:
1. Duplicate logic
2. Hard to maintain
3. Any change must be repeated

Example
class CSVProcessor {
    void process() {
        read();
        processCSV();
        save();
    }
}

class XMLProcessor {
    void process() {
        read();
        processXML();
        save();
    }
}